Identifies and resolves the root cause of incidents. Takes a proactive approach to avoidance or identification of root cause of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) problems. Deploys a knowledge system based on recurrence of common errors. Resolves or escalates incidents. Optimises system or component performance.
Identifies and classifies incident types and service interruptions. Records incidents cataloguing them by symptom and resolution.
Exploits specialist knowledge and in-depth understanding of the Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure and problem management process to identify failures and resolve with minimum outage. Makes sound decisions in emotionally charged environments on appropriate action required to minimise business impact. Rapidly identifies failing component, selects alternatives such as repair, replace or reconfigure.
Provides leadership and is accountable for the entire problem management process. Schedules and ensures well trained human resources, tools, and diagnostic equipment are available to meet emergency incidents. Has depth of expertise to anticipate critical component failure and make provision for recovery with minimum downtime. Constructs escalation processes to ensure that appropriate resources can be applied to each incident.
the organisation's overall Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) infrastructure and key components.the organisation's reporting procedures.the organisation's critical situation escalation procedures.the application and availability of diagnostic tools.the link between system infrastructure elements and impact of failure on related business processes.
conduct risk management audits and act to minimise exposures.allocate appropriate resources to maintenance activities, balancing cost and risk.communicate at all levels to ensure appropriate resources are deployed internally or externally to minimise outages.monitor progress of issues throughout lifecycle and communicate effectively.identify potential critical component failures and take action to mitigate effects of failure.
