Implements plans for a programme of change. Plans and directs a single or portfolio of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) projects to ensure co-ordination and management of interdependencies. Orchestrates projects to develop or implement new, internal or externally defined processes to meet identified business needs. Defines activities, responsibilities, critical milestones, resources, skills needs, interfaces and budget, optimises costs and time utilisation, minimises waste and strives for high quality. Develops contingency plans to address potential implementation issues. Delivers project on time, on budget and in accordance with original requirements. Creates and maintains documents to facilitate monitoring of project progress.
Understands and applies the principles of project management and applies methodologies, tools and processes to manage simple projects, optimises costs and minimises waste.
Accounts for own and others activities, working within the project boundary, making choices and giving instructions, optimising activities and resources. Manages and supervises relationships within the team; plans and establishes team objectives and outputs and documents results.
Manages complex projects or programmes, including interaction with others. Influences project strategy by proposing new or alternative solutions and balancing effectiveness and efficiency. Is empowered to revise rules and choose standards. Takes overall responsibility for project outcomes, including finance and resource management and works beyond project boundary.
Provides strategic leadership for extensive interrelated programmes of work to ensure that Information Technology is a change enabling agent and delivers benefit in line with overall business strategic aims. Applies extensive business and technological mastery to conceive and bring innovative ideas to fruition.
a project methodology, including approaches to define project steps and tools to set up action plans.technologies to be implemented within the project.company business strategy and business processes.development and compliance to financial plans and budgets.Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) principles and regulation.structured project management methodologies (e.g. agile techniques).
communicate project progress to all relevant parties reporting on topics such as cost control, schedule achievements, quality control, risk avoidance and changes to project specifications.delegate tasks and manage team member contributions appropriately.manage external ,contracted resources to achieve project objectives.optimise project portfolio timelines and delivery objectives by achieving consensus on stakeholder priorities.identify project risks and define action plans to mitigate.define a project plan by breaking it down into individual project tasks.
